
For his first novel, the 2011 blog-turned-book-turned-movie The Martian, Andy Weir chose a main character who was pretty similar to himself: a white guy who loves science. For his follow-up, which came out on November 14, Weir wanted to try something different: Artemis follows Jazz Bashara, a 20-something woman of color who lives on the first (and only) city on the Moon, where she, well, moonlights as a smuggler.Essentially, Artemis is a lunar sci-fi thriller, and it arrives at a high point in cultural moon lunacy—entrepreneurs like Elon Musk are infatuated with the idea of settlements there, and startups like Moon Express see Luna as a base for further spaceward travel. And according to Stephen Hawking, humanity should probably relocate to the Moon to escape Earth’s impending doom. But is Weir’s vision of future lunar life—particularly as it concerns Jazz and other minorities—really a better place to live?Sarah Scoles, Science Contributor: I listened to the audiobook version of The Martian while driving from California to North Carolina in 2015. Just as main character Mark Watney’s crew was getting pummeled by a dust storm on the Red Planet, I was (kid you not) plowing my Kia into a ground-level red cloud at the California-Arizona border. I thought, “I. am. Mark. Watney.” And, in that coincidental moment, I felt more connected to Mark than I did to Jazz throughout Artemis. Which is surprising because while I live neither on the moon nor Mars, hello, it is I, a human woman on earth who knows a technical thing or two, like this Jazz (although, admittedly, she’s a much better smuggler). I was excited at the premise of a woman-headlined, high-profile sci-fi novel, but things didn’t turn out like I expected.Justice Namaste, Editorial Fellow: I definitely have a lot in common with Jazz. In my twenties, unsure about what to do with my life, usually broke. But about 50 pages in, I noticed a phrase that felt a little weird, and as I kept reading, I started to pick up on a pattern.Early in the book, in a letter to her pen pal Kelvin, Jazz refers to herself as "light brown.” Weir tells us Jazz is of Saudi Arabian descent, and implies that she was raised Muslim, but is no longer practicing. Now, I’ve been a light-skinned black woman my entire life, and while I’ve heard plenty of people refer to themselves as "light-skinned" or even "light,” I’ve never heard "light brown" before. This was the first time I noticed what soon turned into a series of references to race that felt forced and awkward.CrownScoles: Weir does note, in the acknowledgments, that he asked women for help in tackling “the challenge of writing a female narrator” and “[making] sure the portrayal of Islam was accurate.” But some blind spots seem to remain.Namaste: Like at the beginning of the book, Jazz makes an offhand reference to Artemis’s racial makeup, in a way that implies everyone is on the same footing. But just a few pages later, she also mentions that career demographics are based on race: “With the exception of me and Rudy, everyone in the room was Vietnamese. That’s kind of how things shake out in Artemis. A few people who know one another emigrate, they set up a service of some kind, then they hire their friends. And of course, they hire people they know.”There isn’t necessarily anything wrong with this, but it’s one of the few times that ethnicity is mentioned in the book. Jazz is introduced as Saudi Arabian early in the story, but then her ethnicity seems to disappear from view—except in her conversations with her father and other Saudi Arabian folks in the welding industry. However, even these minimal references to racial dynamics make it clear that Artemis is a place (like every other place) where race influences both personal relationships and societal dynamics. The problem is that the book doesn't overtly acknowledge that.Scoles: On the other hand, the reader never forgets that Jazz is a woman. Example: “I giggled like a little girl. Hey, I’m a girl, so I’m allowed.” In an interview with SyFy Wire, Weir said, “I’m certainly not trying to make a point by having a female lead….She doesn’t encounter any distinctly ‘female’ challenges....And the story takes place in a future society where there is practically no sexism.”The book does portray powerful, intelligent female characters (I think the ruthless head of the colony is pretty rad), and passes the Bechdel Test. But then also, one of Jazz’s boyfriends has sex with a 14-year-old girl, and that’s allowed because “different cultures have different sexual morals, so Artemis doesn’t have age-of-consent rules at all.”This pseudolibertarian attitude toward sex laws mirrors Weir’s hands-off stance toward putting serious topics in his fiction. Weir has stated more than once, in interviews about Artemis, that he means no politics by it all. “[My stories] have no subtext or message,” he told The New York Times. “If you think you see something like that, it's in your head, not mine.”But, at least in some modes of literary criticism and consumption, authorial intent—in this case, Weir’s desire for our apolitical comprehension—matters not at all. The text stands alone, and means to each reader what it will. And I, for one, think consent laws and, say, the black markets in which Jazz operates, are political.Namaste: I think that comment gets at one of the key issues—regardless of whether Weir intended to make Artemis a “political” book, choosing a woman of color as his main character made it impossible for the story to be left out of conversations about gender and race.Weir’s comment about Artemis being a society without sexism feels similar to race-related idea of “color-blindness.” You’ve probably heard the argument before, when someone says “I only believe in one race: the human race.” The idea behind this is that if you don’t see racial difference, you can’t possibly uphold inequality. However, many scholars argue that by refusing to acknowledge when racial discrimination does exist, color-blindness actually supports systems of racial inequality.Scoles: On the other hand, Artemis focuses constantly about Jazz’s gender and intercourse exploits, in a way that seems meant to telegraph that Artemisians are beyond sexual stigma. But then there are moments like this one, when Jazz is talking to her father’s colleague: “You were nice little girl,” the colleague says. “Now you are bad.”“Okay...,” responds Jazz. “Look I want to talk to you about something—”“You are unmarried and have sex with many men,” says the colleague. Jazz then notes, to herself, that the woman’s son has sex with many men.This interaction says to me that perhaps men having lots of unwed sex (even queer sex) is okay. But not so much for women.Namaste: And in the same way Artemis may not be the sexually liberated environment it passes itself off as, perhaps Jazz is not the sex-positive role model she is assumed to be. Sure, Jazz likes sex, and she's comfortable talking about it, but is that really all it takes to have a progressive view on sex? I mean the notoriously sexist idea of “locker room talk” checks both those boxes. It seems like this characterization of Jazz assumes that sexually progressive women approach sex in similar ways to men, when really sex positivity is about having a healthy and nuanced attitude towards sex, a depth that Jazz seems to lack in this story.More on the MoonJustice NamasteThe Moon Express MX-1E Lander Is Heading for the Moon or BustJustice NamasteHow Andy Weir Scienced the Lunar Colony in His New Book ArtemisEric NiilerLunar Scientists Want to Hitch a Ride on America's Next MoonshotScoles: And then there’s the whole subplot involving the star scientist, Svoboda, her partner in crime. I’d say Jazz is top-dawg in the dynamics most of their interactions, and their relationship is mutually beneficial. But Svoboda agrees to help Jazz with technical challenges—if she agrees to test his newly invented reusable condom in exchange. Because, you know, Jazz has a lot of sex, whereas he is a nerd and bad with women.Namaste: Jazz is the quintessential “cool girl” (otherwise known as the “girl who’s one of the guys” or just Jennifer Lawrence)—a “Manic Pixie Dream Girl”-adjacent trope. Author Gillian Flynn laid out a perfect description in Gone Girl. Despite Jazz’s embodiment of this trope, she is also shown as a quick-witted smuggler whose scientific knowledge and ability to improvise gets her out of all sorts of jams.Scoles: OK, so we can agree: Sexism exists on Artemis. So does racism, but it’s barely ever mentioned. Artemis seems to over-emphasize the role of gender (say, with the constant mentions of Jazz’s sex life), while almost completely avoiding discussions of race.Namaste: This is a natural result of color-blindness. If you don’t believe race is important, or if you believe that differentiating people along racial lines is bad, it makes sense to mostly avoid talking about race in a meaningful way. There’s a word for this lack of discussion: erasure. He does create a society in which people are of different races, which is a step in the right direction. And people from a variety of ethnic groups have power, and interact. But the book glosses over those interactions, and how race might inform them, and inform people’s identities, in a way it doesn’t gloss over, say, the physics of explosions. While Artemis’s science and tech are fleshed out, the book could spend similar time playing out how earthly social issues might play out on the moon.Scoles: Weir handles what I will eloquently call “queer stuff” (I can say that because I’m gay, which is a joke that will illuminate itself in a second) with similar lack of nuance. Jazz’s ex-boyfriend, Tyler, left her for a man named Dale. Dale helpfully explains the following: “Tyler’s gay, Jazz. Gay as Oscar Wilde wearing sequins walking a pink poodle with a tiara on his head.” This defines “gay” as “tired-ass stereotypes.” But it’s OK! Because a gay character says it.Later, the bartender (affectionately?) calls Dale an “arse bandit.” Generally, when Dale is around, Jazz makes sure to let us know that, hey, never forget, he’s the gay one, gay AF, sex with men, doesn’t like girls, nope, not at all. Jazz is mad that Tyler left her for Dale (fair enough, although her relationship with her closeted boyfriend was probably not on firm long-term footing anyway), so she herself may be more apt to mention his orientation. But it (and mentions from other characters) land wrong, like if my friends said, “Good to see you, gay friend,” when I walked into the room. I wouldn’t like that, were I here or in Artemis.And in Artemis, Weir ginned up a society full of different races, queer people, and a competent, crafty, mouthy, smart, independent, sexually uninhibited female character. And that counts for a lot. But the world could have been built and written to do something deeper. Not to contain a “political message,” but to acknowledge that even in Moon Land, life and race and gender are complex. Let's all admit that this stuff is ingrained in all of us, and the art we create reflects it, and then that art reflects back on society.Namaste: It makes me wonder: Why make her a woman of color at all? Why not just write a white man? Saying that these aspects of identity don’t really affect who Jazz is suggests that ethnicity, religion, and gender can just be slapped on top of an already-formed character, and that they aren’t actually integral to her identity development and character arc. Since Artemis is already on its way to being made into a movie, this is an area the filmmakers need to be sure to handle with nuance. Because personally, if life on Artemis has the same social issues as we do here, I’d rather save my cash and stay on Earth. Related VideoScienceThe Team That Made the Mission to the Moon Possible'Mission Control: The Unsung Heroes of Apollo' is a documentary film about the team that built NASA's mission control and guided astronauts to the moon. 

To consider anything about She’s Gotta Have It, the attentive Netflix series that modernizes Spike Lee’s 1986 debut feature of the same name, first requires one address its final episode. It’s Thanksgiving night and Nola Darling (DeWanda Wise), a Brooklyn painter and self-identified “polyamorous pansexual” with hypnotic charm, has summoned her three suitors to dinner. Up until this point, they’d yet to cross paths, and only vaguely knew of each other through Nola’s mention of dating other men. All season the show had been building to this juncture, and its occurrence is all the more surprising because it’s Nola who methodically gathers her trio of lovers in one place, the refuge of her Brooklyn apartment.“What’s the real purpose of inviting all three of us here?” asks Jaime, a sensible and sometimes dull Wall Street business type. Nola’s response, layered and selfish, but not unreasonable, lands like a punch to the gut. She acknowledges having “messed up,” but refuses to linger over past mistakes. Opposed to one man, she instead chooses herself. “What kind of lady,” begins Greer, the most immodest of her lovers—but Nola cuts him off, ironclad and unapologetic, leveraging control: “...Acts like a man?”The series, much like Lee’s original film was 30 years ago, is a seductive case study in power dynamics, masked as a savvy rom-com. The crux of Nola’s story, the symbolism that is to be mined from her impassioned travails, is really about the redistribution of authority, and the reimagining of female desire as something more entangled, impulsive, and ideologically liberated.David Lee/NetflixStretched across 10 episodes premiering tomorrow, She’s Gotta Have It is set in contemporary Fort Greene, a creative hub vulnerable to the tempest of gentrification. All of 27, Nola does whatever’s needed to get by: working as a middle-school art teacher in Crown Heights, paying for therapy with her paintings. The show follows our heroine through a succession of peaks and valleys, some professional, all eye-openingly personal. Early in the series, a verbal assault prompts an anonymous crusade to reassert control; Nola begins to secretly post street art—with messages like “My Name Isn’t Boo” and “My Name Isn’t Bitch”—all throughout the city (Tatyana Fazlalizadeh’s “Stop Telling Women To Smile” art series, which began in Brooklyn in 2012, was a sure inspiration).Still, for the whole of the series, its urgency is extracted from Nola’s romantic attachment to the three men in her life: Jaime (Lyriq Bent), Greer (Cleo Anthony), and Mars (played with spunk and spark by Anthony Ramos). A proud nonconformist, she never commits to just one suitor, upturning the false virtue that allows men to juggle multiple relationships without being harassed or slandered, without being labeled a “ho,” a “slut,” or worse.If the original film rooted Nola’s agency in man and in her sexual selfhood, a move the scholar bell hooks criticized as a “narrowly defined notion of liberation,” Lee’s remake attempts to be more attuned to the realities of the day. In the form of a feminist equal and a single mother who owns a local nursery, the revamp introduces Opal (Ilfenesh Hadera) into the carousel of Nola’s lovelife. “Unlike the men I’ve been dealing with, she’s not trying to own me,” Nola says of her. “I have the space to be myself.” But while Nola is the sole author of her story, free to gratify her appetite as she sees fit, satiety almost always comes at the expense of another person. During one therapy session, she happily owns up to her sexual proclivities: “Words like monogamy and family have never seemed like a remote possibility.” The only thing better than freedom is control, and Nola won’t loosen her grip so easily.Even as She’s Gotta Have It makes a convincing case for female empowerment, though, the show at times becomes weighed down by its own ambition (a property Lee has never lacked). One of its least effective components is the writing itself, which erupts in patchy sequences; scenes suddenly cut short or unexpectedly accelerate without having earned the right to. The show, however, comes alive in other strokes of mastery: its stellar score, the periodically breathtaking cinematography, and the fire of Wise and Ramos, two alluring talents.As I mentioned some months ago, it’s in the intimate spaces, between friends and lovers, where Lee hits his stride narratively. (While Lee directed all the episodes, the show counts Barry Michael Cooper as a screenwriter and revered playwright Lynn Nottage as a producer). The most fascinating aspects of any given episode are its small detours, conversations over the phone or seated at dinner that touched on themes of gentrification, mental health, self-worth, or white privilege.The most potent statement in any series about transactional power—let alone one with a black woman at its center—is the simple fact of its existence. The batch of new shows that arrive alongside She’s Gotta Have It only magnify its significance. Together with the heroines of Insecure, SMILF, and Amazon’s fantastic pilots for The Climb and Love You More, Nola Darling signifies a reauthoring of womanhood in the public space, a reclamation of ownership and victimhood, an undoing of patriarchal authority. (The news of Charlie Rose, Harvey Weinstein, and others only deepens the substance of these shows.) These are still stories of power, only this time with new, more deserving faces. Related VideoTechnology11 Cable Alternatives for Cord CuttersNearly 20% of US homes have said goodbye to their cable subscriptions. Here are some of the most popular ways to watch your favorite shows after cutting the cord. 

Tucked away in my mother's house, somewhere in the room that used to be mine, is a Nintendo GameCube that's not mine. My own GameCube is God-knows-where—languishing on some GameStop warehouse shelf, or in someone's garage, buried beneath an electric drill after an impulsive used-game purchase in the late 2000s. But this other GameCube, the one that's there now? I have no idea how it got into my room. My stepdad is a collector of various forms of junk, and one day when I visited it was just there, an apparition from gaming past.The role games play in our lives has grown larger, messier, and more socially acceptable in the past two decades. Videogames are no longer niche activities; their logic inflects all digital media in one way or another, so even if you aren't playing directly, you're probably still playing somehow. (If social media visibility isn't a game, I don't know what is.) The idea of games as a countercultural escape is an outdated one in most contexts. They're just a part of the fabric of our lives.There's one major exception to this sea change, though: the holiday season. During November and December, which for so many people involves a pilgrimage to bygone places, videogames take on a renewed and singular importance.Home is a messy place. For many of us, it's the site of old memories, both positive and negative. The accumulated detritus of longstanding family fights, parental disappointments, grudges and squabbles lasting years, if not decades, builds up easily in an old family home, like dirt on the walls. Family gatherings are nostalgia engines, both for positive memories and the absolute worst.Games can provide a salve to the bad memories and old wounds, happy places to go to when things get uncomfortable. If that one uncle gets too drunk and starts mentioning when you got stood up for senior prom, well, that's what that old Game Boy Color you still have in the closet is for, right?Those old games can become a means to occupy older versions of ourselves, too. A means of visiting with someone you once knew— keeping, as Joan Didion put it, on nodding terms with your old self. Finding the old games stored in the closet, or simply engaging in an old hobby in the places you used to, can unlock old feelings, old senses of self, and let you turn them over in new light.When I was younger, I was in charge of setting up videogames at my grandmother's house every Thanksgiving and Christmas. The Super Nintendo and Nintendo 64 units she owned, once my childhood entertainment when I visited her, were repurposed into a means of keeping a whole gaggle of grandkids occupied before and after dinner. We would play Super Smash Bros. and Super Mario World; I still remember what it was like, sitting in that little corner of the dining room with my grandmother, forcing her to learn how to play these Nintendo games so I'd have someone to play with. (She always humored me.) Going home now, playing Nintendo games old and new in those same places, will put me in both of those places at once. I'll imagine myself as the older shepherd and the young, overly enthusiastic nerd, both with a controller in my hand.And games can also be a means of bringing a safety net with us. The week after Thanksgiving, I'm spending a week back home. In preparation, I've loaded up my Nintendo Switch with expanded storage capacity and a bunch of new games—some ports of existing titles, some games I've been meaning to try. It's a comfort blanket, a way to bring my present back with me. To not go back to a former version of myself completely. A memory trick in a 720p screen.So, as corny as it sounds, videogames, and their power to both hide us and reveal us, are something to be thankful for this Thanksgiving. When you go home, check out the closet, see if there's an Atari or a Sega Genesis tucked in there. Pull it out, remember how it felt; spend some time in those old shoes. Me, I'm going to see if that GameCube still works. 

One of Timm Woods’ most precious possessions looks like something you’d find in the basement of a derelict castle, or maybe at a back-of-the-mall magic shop: It’s a notebook bound in leatherlike skin, covered with an upside-down, faux-gold keyhole and filled with handwritten, eraser-dusted passages featuring titles like “Ravenloft” and “Attack on Myth Drannor.”Before he goes to work, Woods might spend an hour or more consulting the book, poring over its various charts and calculations, readying himself for another night as one of New York City’s leading for-hire Dungeons & Dragons dungeon master, or DM. “The book is how I psych myself up,” he says. “I tried to make it look like what you’d imagine is going on inside a DM's head. And if somebody finds it, it’ll be very clear that it’s something I care a great deal about.”Tonight, a cool Friday in August, the book rests on a cluttered table in Woods’ Brooklyn apartment, not far from an assortment of gaming figurines and a half-demolished bag of Oreo Mega Stuf cookies. The five players gathered around Woods—including a teacher, a fashion-company copywriter, a corporate car-service dispatcher, and a publishing-house editorial assistant—have spent the evening progressing through a D&D campaign mega-stuffed with skirmishes and creatures, including Valkyries and a plant monster known as a Tree Blight. As the three-hour session nears its climax, the team members find themselves facing down a tower on wheels that’s rolling their way, filled with skeletal beasties called Gnolls.Woods sometimes spends three months preparing for a D&D session.
Chris Maggio for WIREDClearly, it’s time to send in the giant dinosaurs.“All you need to roll for the ankylosaurus to hit the wheels is a measly 12,” Woods says. There’s a scattered chop-clunk as the die hit the table; soon a 12 comes up, and the dinosaurs are attacking with their whiplike tails. “Wha-chee!” Woods riffs in a playful falsetto. “You’re going to hamstring these towers.”Woods, a 30-year-old with neatly floppy hair, is dressed tonight in a black button-down shirt and jeans. His DM performances—and being a dungeon master is a kind of performance—are often marked by excitable narration and winkingly melodramatic theatrics; at one point during tonight’s game, he gleefully pounds a hand into a fist, mimicking an arrow’s impact on an opponent.He’s spent nearly three months preparing for this showdown, even hand-building a few model towers out of scrap wood and dowels. It’s one of the most elaborate adventures he’s crafted in his four-year career as a professional DM at schools and homes in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Sometimes, like tonight, the games are run in his apartment, where the bookshelves reach high with graphic novels and board games, and where the walls are decorated with full-color maps from D&D classics like Greyhawk and Isle of Dread.Woods discovered the world of role-playing games, or RPGs, when he was about 10 years old, after finding a free Dungeons & Dragons demo game online. He cast himself as the DM, even though he wasn’t entirely sure what that entailed. He soon realized that the DM could function as a sort of semi-benevolent story-deity—the one who ignites the adventures, emcees the action, and ultimately oversees a fantasy world where new thrills or terrors can be unearthed with a roll of the die. After a few rounds, “I realized, ‘Oh, shit. You can do anything with this,’ ” Woods says.He was hardly the first to have that realization. First introduced in 1974, Dungeons & Dragons soon become standard-issue equipment for geeks everywhere—not that they had a monopoly on the game. In its Reagan-era heyday, D&D was like convenience-store Schnapps or Jim Morrison lyrics: Everyone indulged at least once, usually late on a weekend night, and either become an instant devotee or spent the rest of their lives denying it ever happened.There are seven different dice in Dungeons & Dragons.
Chris Maggio for WIRED“I realized, ‘Oh, shit. You can do anything with this,’ ” Woods says.
Chris Maggio for WIREDNow, though, D&D is in the midst of a striking comeback. In 1999, Hasbro purchased Wizards of the Coast, which itself had acquired the rights to the game in 1997*, giving D&D's marketing and distribution a major proficiency bonus. Yet the game has also been around long enough to become a multi-generational pursuit. In recent years, older players have begun dusting off their Starter Sets, while curious younglings who’ve endured marathon binges of Stranger Things or Minecraft (or who caught 2011’s infamous D&D-centric episode of Community) were inspired to seek out the game that all but redefined how a collaborative, hands-on narrative could work. “People are either rediscovering or discovering for the first time how wonderful the experience is to create a story with people together at the table,” says Matthew Mercer, a voice actor and D&D whiz who serves as DM on Geek & Sundry’s Critical Role series on Twitch. “We’d kind of moved away from that, thanks to digital media and videogames. But now there’s a resurgence and appreciation for a more personal experience.”Which is one of the reasons Woods is so busy these days. He’s currently overseeing nine games a week, all of them focusing on either Dungeons & Dragons, or the kid-friendlier, D&D-influenced game Dungeon World. His clientele is made up of an assortment of armchair-adventuring adults, students, and families (including one with a few Oscar wins, though he’d prefer to keep their identity a secret). He’s spent the past few years doing all of this while also working to earn an RPG-related doctorate (his dissertation title: “Anything Can Be Attempted: Table-Top Role Playing Games as Learning and Pedagogy”).For the generation of kids who were raised on D&D in the ’70s and ’80s, finding a good DM often meant asking around the neighborhood cul-de-sac, hoping someone you knew had a wild imagination, an appreciation for swordplay, and a halfway-decent head for math. Decades later, the growth of RPG games, as well as the task-rabid demands of the online gig economy, make it much easier for players to bring in someone like Woods, who will show up at your place, notebook in hand, ready to start your campaign.But while Woods is one of several DMs-for-hire out there, this isn’t his hobby or a side gig; it’s a living, and a pretty good one at that, with Woods charging anywhere from $250 to $350 for a one-off three-hour session (though he works on a sliding scale). For that price, Woods will not only research and plan out your game but also, if you become a regular, answer your occasional random text queries about wizard spells. “He’s worth the money,” says Kevin Papa, a New York City educator (and occasional DM) who’s been part of this Friday-night game for more than a year. “Being a DM requires a lot of brainshare. I don’t know how Timm absorbs it all.”As it turns out, the very attributes that help form the core of every Dungeons & Dragons character—strength, constitution, dexterity, intelligence, wisdom, and charisma—are the same ones needed to be a stellar Dungeon Master. Woods describes himself as “100 percent an introvert,” but the kind of introvert who doesn’t mind being the center of attention under the right circumstances. Which explains why he has been known to crack jokes in an elf’s voice or dramatically narrate castle-yard battles with cacophonous verve. When he was younger, Woods preferred to be alone, living inside his imaginary worlds; now he has a job in which, night after night, he must share those worlds with others. “Being a DM is very intimate,” he says. “In many ways, the people who watch me run a game have a more authentic sense of what's going on in my head than many other people in my life.”Woods grew up in New Hyde Park, Long Island, a suburb about 15 miles east of Manhattan. Like a lot of other intensely smart kids, he was drawn to fiction, especially the works of Lord of the Rings creator J. R. R. Tolkien. For a while, he thought about becoming a fantasy writer himself. “He’d always been interested in telling stories, and he always had a really vivid imagination,” his older brother, Brendan, says. The siblings discovered D&D together—they have long-running games to this day—and even in their earliest sessions it was clear to Brendan that his brother was best suited to play the role of DM. “It gave him a framework to build on: ‘Hey, here’s this guideline, but make it your own.’ And he liked the idea of having control over the story.”Woods is currently overseeing nine games a week, all of them focusing on either Dungeons & Dragons, or the kid-friendlier, D&D-influenced game Dungeon World.
Chris Maggio for WIREDBut, as is also often the case with the intensely smart, Timm Woods preferred to go solo, spending hours designing D&D games, memorizing the famous conflicts and campaigns, poring over articles in Dungeon magazine, and learning hundreds of character names and powers. All that work was necessary for him to master a game that, for many, can be offputtingly complex. The bare-bones setup of D&D seems at least semi-easy enough: You create a character using a series of predetermined traits and skills, and then set off on a DM-guided and -designed adventure in which the outcome of each new interaction, from battles to conversations, is determined by multiple rolls of the dice. (There are seven different dies, from four-sided to 20-sided.)Players work together—be they dwarf, elf, halfing, or human—and the DM serves as a sort of all-powerful cheerleader-slash-enabler. But the amount of institutional knowledge required to keep a game running smoothly is voluminous, as evidenced by the players' version of “Basic Rules for Dungeons & Dragons,”, which runs more than 80,000 words and includes such subheadings as “Gods of the Multiverse” and “Ability Scores & Modifiers.” It’s not unusual for a group of rookie D&D players to spend their first night staring at a manual, lost in orc-induced confusion.As a kid, Woods spent more time thinking about D&D than actually playing with others. This was partly because he didn’t feel comfortable approaching his peers about D&D. “I would do all the DMing craft, but I used to get almost depressed: ‘What’s it all for? I’m never even in the remote future actually gonna run games like this, because no one’s gonna play with me.’ ”By the time he was in his teens, Woods was attending an all-boys high school that required each student to give a speech every semester—something Woods dreaded. So he responded by coming up with the most ridiculously showy presentations possible, at one point jumping up on a teacher’s desk while reenacting the iconic Gollum-Sméagol speech from The Lord of the Rings. “It was my way of getting a reputation as a class clown,” he says. “I was putting on a very self-conscious performance to make sure people would like me.”This was in the early ’00s, by which point Peter Jackson’s Lord of the Rings film adaptations had helped that series evolve from back-of-the-classroom classic to pop-culture-conquering sacred text. The success of those films—as well as a new wave of superhero movies, Star Wars stories, and lore-locked games like Magic: The Gathering—proved that nerdiness was now (and had perhaps always been) a wide-scale epidemic, and a joyous one at that.“I need to be cracking jokes,” Woods says. “I need to be acting as though we’re just a group of friends playing D&D, because that’s the experience everybody wants.”
Chris Maggio for WIREDWhen Woods runs a game, his style is part dorm-room hangout and part one-man show.
Chris Maggio for WIREDIt was only a matter of time before Dungeons & Dragons became part of that reappraisal-slash-reawakening. Woods noticed it happening around 2009, when he was studying writing and English at Loyola University in Maryland. By then he’d begun playing again regularly and saw that some of the people who would have once made fun of D&D were suddenly curious about it. At a time when it’s possible to mount a months-long Words With Friends battle on your phone—or play a days-long videogame with someone who’s not even in the same country, let alone the same room—RPGs are a sort of analog anomaly: They require you to put down your devices, pick up the die, and create a sort of IRL group magic.After watching Woods DM one particularly intense session, a friend’s roommate approached him, wide-eyed. “He watched the whole game, and afterward he came up to me and said, ‘How do you do that?’ That’s when I realized that the people who’d always had a problem playing the game—the people who said, ‘In a million years, I could never do this’—could be my future customers.”When Woods runs a game, his style is part dorm-room hangout and part one-man show. “I need to be cracking jokes,” he says. “I need to be acting as though we’re just a group of friends playing D&D, because that’s the experience everybody wants.” During the sessions, it’s not unusual for him to rise from his seat to readjust some figurines or plot out a distance on the map, only to remain standing for the next few turns, regaling players with details on the latest grotesque creature or mystic weapon. His voice rises giddily whenever someone comes up with a novel way to vanquish a foe, breaking into the occasional Oooooh! or Yess! Here, for example, is how he narrates the action after a wizard named Victor shoots a magic missile at a demonic hyena-like creature called a Shoosuva:The Shoosuva starts flailing about a little bit, then gets back up, sits back down, and … AA-BOOM! It hits the ground for good, and its eyes slowly start to shut. Victor is very excited, and he says “ ‘Demonslayer’: I’m putting it on the résumé.”It’s a highly entertaining way to spend three hours, especially if someone brings pizza. (Full disclosure: I met Woods last year, when I joined one of his D&D games; I had to drop out for scheduling reasons, meaning the further adventures of one Gnome Peterson remain temporarily on hold).There were no beginner’s guides to being a for-hire, for-profit dungeon master when Woods started his career, four years ago. Back then he was working at Forbidden Planet NYC, a famed Manhattan comic book and collectibles store, where he was helping sell RPG merchandise. “Once a day, someone would come in and say, ‘D&D? I’ve always wanted to play that, but I don’t have a friend who will teach it to me.’” Inspired, Woods printed up business cards (“Timm Woods: Professional Game Mastery”), and within a week or so a frazzled parent approached him at work, asking if he knew someone who could run a game for her son and his friends. “That was my first gig: An 11-year-old’s D&D-themed birthday party,” Woods says.Related StoriesDavid KushnerDungeon Master: The Life and Legacy of Gary GygaxGeek's Guide to the GalaxyThe Media Still Owes Dungeons & Dragons an ApologyGeek's Guide to the GalaxyDungeons & Dragons Is a Lot Like ReligionHe still shows up once a year for that game, but for the most part those early days “were a mess,” he says. “I did not have any clients.” To make things worse, he found out he had competition. One day in the store, Woods heard about another NYC-based dungeon master—one so successful that he’d supposedly been flown out to California to run a game for a group of lawyers. “I thought, through gritted teeth, ‘Really? That's great,’ ” he says. “I was so jealous.”There was another, more unexpected obstacle: When Woods would mention his new job online, he’d often get harangued by other D&D players who were put off by the very notion of for-profit DMing. “They seem to view it as akin to someone sitting down to play Magic and saying, ‘I'm so good, you’ve gotta give me $20 if you even want to play with me.’ I’d make the argument that paid DMing helps the hobby at large by bringing people into the game.”Mercer, the Geek & Sundry host, says there's a respectable place for professional dungeon masters like Woods. “There's an old-school gatekeeper mentality to some of the RPG community: ‘It's unfair that somebody out there can make money on something that I worked so hard to make for free for my friends.’" he says. "But Timm's able to make a living doing something he loves, and gets to bring joy to people who are excited to spend some of their disposable income for this experience.”Woods did his best to ignore the trolls and kept his business cards handy. After several months of hustle, he picked up more clients. Many of them were kids—parties and after-school sessions being a staple of the for-hire DM economy—but each birthday or one-off adult game allowed him to hone his skills. An eight-hour session in Connecticut, for example, taught him that he needed to impose some time limits. “When you run a game for that long, you’re invariably straying off the map,” he says. And he realized the differences between kid players and their adult counterparts. “The kids will be very honest with each other,” he says. “They’ll say something like, ‘Well, if you do that, I’m just gonna kill your character. And I know it’s gonna ruin the game, but I’ll ruin the game. Watch me.’ With the adult groups, everybody knows that they’re there to have fun.”Woods also learned, over the years, how to balance his DM duties with the expectations of the players. It’s a tricky dynamic: The people at the table are paying him to have a good time, but it’s hard to get repeat business if your customers are constantly in danger of being torn up by hyena-demons—or even if they’re simply nonplussed at their last few turns.Papa remembers a game in which his character was up against a squad of hungry monsters, yet Woods eventually steered them away before they could finish Papa off. “It didn’t make sense, and I think it comes from an attitude of, ‘Well, he’s paying money, so I don’t want to upset him.’ But I’m a realistic kind of guy, and I couldn’t care less if my character dies. And the great thing about Timm is that if there’s something that’s not working, you can email or call him and be like, ‘Can we maybe change something?’ It’s more fun for us, and it helps him grow.”Role-playiing games are a kind of analog anomaly: They require you to put down your devices, pick up the die, and create a sort of in-real-life group magic.
Chris Maggio for WIRED“I’ve had people say they want me to be harsher as a DM, and I don’t always take that advice,” Woods says. “If I’m too much of a hardass, then they’re really gonna start questioning what they are paying me for.” So he adapts the game's difficulty levels to his players' wishes and skill levels. And while it is possible to be revived in D&D, it can slow the game down. In D&D, Woods says, "death and unconsciousness are relatively boring."Yet there’s another reason Woods might want to keep everyone at the table happy. When he was younger, Woods couldn’t find enough people to play with him, and wasn’t even sure how to find them; now he has enough D&D pals to fill out that ridiculously detailed notebook of his. “Before I start a game, I think, ‘I am not their friend, I am their Dungeon Master,’ ” he says. “And then, within 30 seconds of me walking in and someone saying, ‘Hey, Timm!’ I’m already like, ‘Oh, fuck it, I love these people.’”One weekend early last month, Woods was standing in Manhattan’s jumbo-sized Javits Center. He’d bought a last-minute pass for the New York Comic Con—“a sea of introverts,” he says—where he was hoping to check out some booths and, if he got the chance, plug his DM business. While walking the floor, he was distracted by the sight of a giant dragon that had been equipped with a saddle. Earlier in the day, visitors had been able to pose for photos atop the beast, but by the time Woods arrived the dragon was closed.“And I say out loud, ‘Are you kidding me? I wanna ride on a friggin’ dragon!’ ” Woods recalls. “And this guy who had been standing next to me starts talking to me about it, and I just jumped wholeheartedly into this conversation with him, in a way that I couldn’t have in high school or college. The thing that would have made me hesitate back then is dead now. I’ve murdered it through hours and hours of D&D.”A few weeks before the con, Woods finished his dissertation—the latest, most seemingly grown-up victory in a decades-long campaign he’d begun when he was barely a teen. He was soon to be Dr. Woods, but he wasn’t yet ready to leave D&D for the far dicier world of academia. “This all started as me trying to figure out how I could get paid to run these games and survive on it,” he says. The plan, for now, is to keep adding more games, keep finding more clients, maybe even get some corporate gigs. To help his clients undertake their next battle-scarring campaigns, even if a few of them die along the way. To keep riding the friggin’ dragon as far and high as it’ll go.*This article has been updated to correct an error. Wizards of the Coast did not create Dungeons & Dragons. Related VideoTechnologyGame of Thrones: Dragon Effects ExclusiveDaenerys Targaryen's dragons on HBO's Games of Thrones are fan favorites, and WIRED has an incredible, exclusive look at how they were brought to life with feature film quality by the visual effects artists at Pixmondo.  Virtual wind tunnels, water simulations and real world references all played a part in constructing their realistic behaviors. 

Demogorgons, inverted worlds, really bad psychokinesis-induced nosebleeds—a lot of really unbelievable things exist in the world of Stranger Things. Hence the name. But that doesn’t mean everything in Hawkins, Indiana is fiction. At least not entirely. In fact, Hawkins itself has real-world roots.“It’s based on a place in Montauk, New York called Camp Hero,” says Stranger Things star Gaten Matarazzo (aka Dustin). “There was, like, rumors of secret government spies doing human experiments to fight in the Cold War. It’s based on that one government lab.”OK, so maybe Eleven isn't actually out in the woods somewhere fighting monsters, but it does show there’s more truth to the mysteries on Netflix’s show than you might think. Other things Matarazzo and his costar Joe Keery (Steve) reveal in Google Autocompete Interview above? Well, for one, they say it might not be good for children—“Depends on the kid,” Matarazzo says—and that Stranger Things passes the Bechdel Test.Want to know more, including whether or not Keery is currently pregnant? Click play on the video above.More Stranger ThingsHow Netflix made Stranger Things a global phenomenonWIRED's interview with Matt and Ross DufferAn excessively in-depth discussion of Season 2 

Q: Before a date, I like to do a little online research on the person. If I find interesting stuff, should I bring it up?A: Sir John Hawkins was a British slave trader who voyaged through what is now Florida in 1565. The landscape Hawkins traversed was murky, disorienting, wild—a new world that no European could easily comprehend. Hawkins tried his best to make sense of what he saw. But in addition to being a morally despicable trafficker of humans, he was also, apparently, a moron. For example, when he saw animal horns being worn around native people’s necks, he decided they must be ­unicorn horns. From there, Hawkins employed his own special brand of extrapolative idiot-logic to deduce that there must be lions in Florida—because, as the historian Andrea Smalley writes, “the enmity between lions and unicorns was well known, and no beast could exist without its enemy.”Hawkins was only one of many explorers groping boneheadedly through America and ­transmitting their awestruck, staggering wrongness back to the societies from which they came. (Another early traveler named Job Hortop—even the guy’s name sounds preposterous—reported catching a ­23-foot-long, porcine-­headed aquatic dragon by baiting a fish hook with a dog.) Still, if you were living in Europe and curious about the entirely ­new-to-you second half of the planet—which: of course you were—you had little choice but to wade through this kind of intelligence gathered by egregious, hooey-slinging buffoons.Related StoriesJon MooallemMr. Know-It-All: Is it OK For Me to Ask Customer Service Reps if They're Robots?Jon MooallemMr. Know-It-All: Should I Feel Guilty For Watching Pirated TV?Jon MooallemMr. Know-It-All: When Someone Melts Down in Public, Can I Record It? (Please?)Have you ever been to Florida? I ­happen to love it. Sure, the state is still heavily mythologized, owing largely to the internet’s fascination with tawdry, meth-heavy #FloridaMan memes. But no one, whatever they think of Florida, still reflexively pictures a landscape of gamboling unicorns or hog-faced sea dragons. Nor, I’m guessing, did most early American settlers arrive there expecting to find such beasts. Instead, visitors have successively managed to recognize the many actual, sublime wonders of the place for themselves: My list includes a memory of plaintive oaks lining a country road in the Panhandle, the “It’s a Small World” ride at Disney World, Angela Bassett, citrus.My point is not just that information gleaned from afar is often wrong. It’s that we can—if we want to—compartmentalize information of questionable credibility and stay open to learning the truth firsthand. We can resist marrying ourselves to prior knowledge, and instead let it pique our sense of adventure and discovery, our sense of romance.I think most reasonable people ­understand this. So first off: Yes, I think it’s OK to bring up your exploratory Googling on a date. The truth is, we move through life preceded online by a disjointed, sometimes ­ungracefully translated travelogue of where we’ve already been. I’d argue that playing it cool, and pretending you hadn’t bothered to glance at any of this material before a date, is odd and maybe even a little insulting.Of course, I assume you are decent and kind and know how to bring up your discoveries in good taste—treating what you’ve read delicately, using it to open a meaningful conversation and not just hammering your counterpart with their most mortifying social media deep-cuts. And I also assume you know that your Googling does not make you more of an authority on this person than the person themself. (Duh.)Instead—and please, let me have this one little spasm of optimism and romance—you understand that every date is a voyage. When you come ashore at the noodle house or café or bar, you hope to finally glimpse the second, heretofore-missing hemisphere of your world. Naturally you’ll have read up a little first. Because you were excited. Because you couldn’t wait to discover it all for yourself.This article appears in the November issue. Subscribe now. 

As many as a million spectators turn out for the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. Another 200,000 show up the night before to watch the enormous balloons inflate. Keeping New York City safe on an ordinary day is challenging enough; locking down a massive parade route is all the more so. But the New York Police Department has recently deployed a new secret weapon to counter body-worn bombs: A team of Labrador retrievers who have graduated from patent-pending "Vapor Wake" security training. These are good dogs.Researchers developed Vapor Wake dog training at Auburn University's College of Veterinary Medicine, in part as a response to Richard Reid's attempted shoe-bombing in 2001. For the last decade or so, Auburn has honed a process to breed and train labs that can detect faint whiffs of explosive particles in the thermal heat plumes humans create as they walk. Combining genetics with rigorous training, the dogs learn to identify different levels of explosive odor, so they can tell the difference between, say, a concealed firearm and multiple pounds of explosives. That level of discernment matters, especially in a situation like the Thanksgiving parade, where the Vapor Wake dogs will need to ignore the weapons law enforcement will be carrying.Super SniffersVapor Wake dogs are born at Auburn, receive environmental and socialization training for their first year, and then receive specific Vapor Wake training through VWK9 until they're about 18 months old. Then they're paired up with a handler for a seven-week joint behavioral training course. Finally, the dogs are ready to help save the world. Or in this case, one of the world's biggest parades."We will have our typical counterterrorism overlay for both the balloon inflation and for the parade," NYPD Chief of Patrol Terence Monahan said at a security press conference Monday. "You will see our Vapor Wake dogs and other canine dogs on both the balloons and during the route."'People will try to beat a metal detector or sneak things into luggage at airports, but when it comes to a dog they don’t try. They do not want to take on a canine's sense of smell.'Paul Hammond, VWK9The dogs work efficiently and calmly in large crowds, and can rapidly screen dozens of people at a time. And if they smell something, they follow the scent trail. Last year, the NYPD deployed eight Vapor Wake dogs for the parade. This year, they've upped the pups to 14, according to Paul Hammond, the president of VWK9, the Alabama-based company that works exclusively with Auburn on the commercial side of Vapor Wake.Vapor Wake dogs don't replace traditional bomb-sniffing dogs, which focus on assessing stationary objects like baggage and vehicles. Instead, Vapor Wake pups are trained to have their heads up, sniffing the air. One dog can sniff out someone wearing or carrying a bomb in a sea of tens of thousands of people."The reality is that the terrorist is always evolving and the new threat is the smaller device being body-worn and hidden and transited into an event," Hammond says. "And these bombs are only emitting a small amount of explosive particles. So traditional bomb dogs really struggle to protect against a bomber in transit."Paw PatrolMajor police departments like New York and Chicago have already incorporated Vapor Wake dogs, as have railroad police forces like Amtrak and ViaRail in Canada. The dogs work at concert venues and sports stadiums, at Disney World and Disneyland, at megachurches, and even at Apple's major events and product launches.VWK9 exclusively uses Labradors for Vapor Wake because of their approachability. "The public perception of a Labrador is such that people don’t mind walking past them," Hammond says. "What we don’t want is people making a 'U' around us trying to avoid the canine. At the same time, because these dogs are front of the house there's a huge deterrent value. People will try to beat a metal detector or sneak things into luggage at airports, but when it comes to a dog they don’t try. They do not want to take on a canine's sense of smell."Because the technique requires refined sniffing, VWK9 reevaluates and re-certifies every Vapor Wake dog every year, whether they are still part of the company's contract business or are owned by other institutions. "No matter who you are, if you’ve got Vapor Wake dog, they have to be evaluated by us on a yearly basis," Hammond says.They may not have the brute power of the sand-filled dump trucks and heavy weapons teams that will also be out in force at the Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York, but Vapor Wake dogs provide a more elegant approach to anti-terrorism work and crowd security. It doesn’t hurt that they’re they cutest canines on the block—no disrespect to the Snoopy balloon. Related VideoSecurityHow to Lock Down Your Facebook Security and Privacy SettingsThe only way to be truly secure on Facebook is to delete your account. But that's crazy talk! Here's how to lock down your privacy and security and bonus, keep targeted ads at bay. 

When Greg Rogers left his gig as a Washington, DC, lobbyist in 2015, he did what any savvy, mid-20s kid with a car and a light wallet might: He signed up to drive for a couple of ridehailing services. “Living the millennial dream means quitting your job, driving for Uber and Lyft, and trying to figure it out,” he says.He was a menace. “It was always the same dance,” says Rogers, now a policy analyst with the Eno Center for Transportation, a think tank. “I wouldn’t be able to see the passengers, and couldn’t find a place to park safely. So I did what a lot of Uber drivers did: I threw on the hazard lights and blocked a lane.” He and his fellow drivers stopped traffic, risking tickets and sparking jams along the way.Rogers and his compatriots were just foot soldiers in an unending war of conquest that rages in nearly every city in the country, even the world. The battleground is ubiquitous but rarely merits a second look. In some places, it occupies mere inches of space. But the territory is now fertile soil, its coveters many. We are talking, of course, about the curb.The curbside has always been a a place for walking and loitering. But in just the past decade, smartphone technology has enabled new transportation services, all of them looking for their own bit of the terrain. The curb is home to bike share programs and the cycling lanes that help their users get around safely. It’s a spot to pick up and drop off passengers (Uber, Lyft, Chariot, Via, public buses and streetcars, paratransit) and things (UPS, FedEx, Instacart, Postmates). Some cities have set aside space for carshare services (Zipcar, Maven), or scooter-shares (Scoot). Others have found new and creative ways to charge for parking spots, experimenting with tech that adjusts prices based on demand.“Cities have started to rethink how their streets are designed from curb from curb,” says Matthew Roe, who directs street design initiatives for the National Association of City Transportation Officials and authored a new curbside management white paper released this week. “They’ve started to realize they need more tools to manage that valuable curbside space. It’s the most valuable space that a city owns and one of the most underutilized.”What you do with the curb sets the tone for your whole city. And through this grey chunk of concrete, local governments are starting to communicate how they'll handle their entire transportation systems. Favor a system that asks citizens to share resources, by making room for, say a bikeshare program, and you say one thing. Favor private parking for residents, and you declare war: “When I think about curb, the first thing that comes to mind is how people react when you take away parking,” said Sarah Jones, the planning director for the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. She was speaking at a surprisingly lively event about curbs, hosted by the San Francisco Bay Area research and advocacy organization SPUR this month. Residents complain, Jones said, of private interests taking over the space, but they don't seem to get that this is exactly what's been happening all along. “I’m not sure what is privatizing public space more than storing your vehicle in it," she said.Good thing American cities are getting a little loosey-goosey with curb control, experimenting with policies that just might make the places more livable, for everyone.Space WarsRogers, the driver-turned analyst, was inspired by his struggles to come up with a new curbside management concept, one that Washington and other cities are beginning to take very seriously. He calls it “shared use mobility zones,” you can think of it as flex-space: At certain times of day, the city reserves the curb for specific functions. During rush hour, maybe, it’s a pick up stop for a microtransit service. In the afternoon, it’s a spot where trucks can pull over and drag in deliveries without double parking. At night, it’s a designated point where a for-hire car can meet passengers pouring out of the bar on the corner. “The best part is that cities can adjust based on what their goals are,” says Rogers.And even though Rogers hasn't actually approached any local governments about his personal zoning idea, cities are acting on similar notions: In October, Washington rolled out a year-long pilot program modeled on the concept of flex-space. Monday through Thursday, a stretch of Connecticut Avenue in the busy Dupont Circle neighborhood is a great place to shop or grab lunch. Thursday through Sunday, 10 pm to 7 pm, it’s one of the most zoo-like nightlife spots in the District.That’s why the city reserves four blocks on those evenings for ridehailing pick-up and drop-off zones. “Folks were spilling out into the travel lane,” says Evian Patterson, the DC Department of Transportation’s director of parking and ground transportation. Now, just a few months on, he says the city has seen safety improvements. The traffic has gotten better, too. San Francisco and Fort Lauderdale have similar pilots in the works.Everybody wants something different, of course, and this is just the beginning of a vision of what a city could be. “If every personal car space were converted to a pick-up or drop-off, or every personal car trip were converted to a shared ride, you would need a lot less space overall because you’re not storing cars—you’re dynamically moving people in and out,” says Andrew Salzberg, who heads up transportation policy at Uber.  “You have the opportunity to do a lot off interesting things: sidewalks cafes, parks, space for bike share, wider sidewalks.”Or, faster transportation overall. In 2015, Chicago's government reserved curbside lanes on a major downtown thoroughfare for buses only, painting them a bright red. In the following year, moving and stoping violations on the road fell. Standing and parking violations almost disappeared. Bus riders were getting to where they needed to go, closer to on time—and so was everyone else.Of course, there is always a catch. This time, it's funding. Cities like Washington make big bucks off charging for personal car-related expenses, through parking meters, parking permits, and traffic violations. The magazine Governing found America’s 25 biggest cities collected almost $5 billion in car-related revenue in 2016, about $129 per resident. If that money goes away, what happens to city services? One option is to charge the new curbside users extra, a tax for the companies delivering people and stuff every day.Figure it out, cities, because the future beckons. The curb is only going to get more important, as even newer tech like self-driving vehicles start driving themselves over the horizon. Prognosticators say shared, autonomous vehicles will never have to park at all, pausing their ferry of people and goods only when they need to re-fuel. That means saying adieu to all auto-based revenue."We’re really preparing the ground for repurposing the parking lane in preparation for autonomous vehicles," says Patterson, the DC transportation official. "We know that it's coming." In the meantime, though, his city is focused on collecting data and information on how residents are getting around, right now—and using the curb to make that easier. "We don’t have a war on cars, but we want residents to know that that’s not the only option," he says. The battle for that contested slice of territory edges toward a peace treaty.More WIRED CitiesSelf-driving cars prep for for the world's most chaotic citiesIf you love driving in hellish traffic, visit these citiesSilicon Valley commutes are terrible. Companies must fix that Related VideoTransportationHow a Bunch of Geeks and Dreamers Jump-Started the Self-Driving CarA decade ago, the idea of self-driving cars on American city streets was almost unthinkable. But a series of contests spurred the development of software and hardware that have brought us to dawn of the next automotive revolution. 

Jaron Lanier may not have sired the term virtual reality—that honor generally goes to French playwright Antonin Artaud in 1938—but he’s one hell of a father figure. As the founder of legendary VR company VPL Research, he both popularized the term and helped create most of the enduring icons of early VR, from The Lawnmower Man’s snazzy headset and gear to the ill-fated Nintendo Power Glove. Now, 25 years after stepping away from the VR field, Lanier has re­­entered the alternate universe he so famously evangelized. His new book, Dawn of the New Everything, is part ­coming-of-age chronicle (he lived with his father in a DIY geodesic dome), part swinging Silicon Valley memoir (rich anecdotes from his time at VPL), and it’s stuffed with enough fantastical soothsaying to fill a Holodeck. Or at least an expansive, occasionally vaporous conversation in avatar-free meatspace.WIRED: You thread the book with more than 50 definitions of virtual reality: “magic tricks, as applied to digital devices,” “a training simulator for Information Age warfare.” Which is your favorite?Lanier: It’s this notion—and this is very hard to express in words and I don’t claim that I’ve ever succeeded in capturing it—that virtual reality is a future trajectory where people get better and better at communicating more and more things in more fantastic and aesthetic ways that becomes this infinite adventure without end that’s more interesting than seeking power and destroying everything. [Laughs.]Seems easy enough! Are the kinds of VR experiences being created today enough to unlock that potential?If you want to look for hope, it’s with the independent artists. Chris Milk, the founder of VR studio Within, has a piece called Life of Us, where your body becomes different creatures in the history of life and evolution. It involves so much self-exploration.Reminds me of a line from your book: “The visceral realness of human presence within an avatar is the most dramatic sensation I’ve felt in VR.”The canvas of VR cannot be the external world—it has to be your body. An example of this is when you create out-of-body sensations of touch and feel. When you’re really changing yourself, that’s so much more interesting than watching something in the external world—and it really improves your sensation of reality.The canvas of  virtual reality cannot be the external world—it has to
be your body.Ever since the current age of VR began—Oculus, Vive, Google—reporters would reach out to you for comment. And it always felt like you were taking a very wait-and-see approach.I’ve always had a complicated relationship to technology in that I thought the dangers were very real. I always have loved technology, but I was really uncomfortable with a lot of tech idealism from the very start. I was part of the start of WIRED, and at that time the idealism was "encryption for everybody" and anonymity, and I always felt like that could create a society in which the biggest assholes win. And now it feels like I was right and I don’t want to be right. I really want to be wrong about that stuff.One of the more puzzling to me but also interesting definitions was you simply call virtual reality "the inverse of AI"—which makes it sound like it’s kind of inconvertibly human.AI is a fake thing. You take in a bunch of data from people and then you replay that data in various forms of interpolation later on. Whereas in VR, the people are there but they’re being transformed in space into—so it’s a space versus time thing. It didn’t even occur to me that anybody would think AI is a real thing.A lot of companies would be unhappy to hear you say that.Ironically, virtual reality—which is sold as an illusion—is real for what it is. Good magicians are the ones who will tell you the truth because they’ll tell you, "hey, this is all an illusion, I’m faking you out." As compared to con artists. So in the same way, VR is the real thing and AI is the fake thing.Now you work at Microsoft, which is invested in mixed reality experiences like HoloLens. Do you see virtual reality and augmented reality as separate?I think the relationship between them is similar to the relationship between film and television: They come through the same streams to the same devices, yet they’re still distinct. They have distinct cultures, they’re made in different ways, we have different expectations of them.How so?Classical VR is ultimately more about you, it’s more about the human body, human identity, human interaction. Mixed reality is about exploring the world. What was interesting about Pokémon Go was people were going out to places. Which maybe got a little out of hand and silly, but they were still appreciating the world. That’s why HoloLens had to be wireless. To this day the coolest thing to do with the HoloLens for me is to take it into the wilderness. Some people might be horrified—Oh my God, how could you take a HoloLens into wilderness?—but if you augment a forest and then take off the display, you actually see the forest better. It pops into reality. It’s an amazing palate cleanser.Does the potential for ethical misuse of VR worry you?Hell yeah. We’re historically fortunate that we’re experiencing things like fake news on social media now, instead of in fully realized VR or mixed reality. We’re getting to know these problems in a way that’s hopefully going to force us to deal with them before they become heavy-duty versions.Related StoriesClive ThompsonYou Gotta Try DIY Virtual Reality, Even if You Make Hideous ThingsPeter RubinVirtual-Reality Porn Is Coming, and Your Fantasies May Never Be the SamePeter RubinVR's First Major Casualty Was One of Its Smartest StartupsWhat innovations should we be focusing on now?The single most important technology that doesn’t exist yet is a way to improvise while you’re in VR. Almost like a musical instrument, but you’re playing reality—that would be the most important thing for the future of expression. It’s a hard thing to do. It might turn out that it’s never done. But I think people will figure it out.And if they don’t?We can definitely make better interaction devices than we have. And there are lots of displays and sensors yet to be built. There’s so much to improve. But I love that.So you’re feeling optimistic?We don’t have any guarantees here. I think we might all die. [Laughs.] We’re in a perilous time. But I really believe in the human capacity for increased creativity and intelligence and wisdom, and I think if we present the tech in such a way that people have an ability to really see it and master it, they’ll rise to the occasion.What’s a definition of virtual reality that you hope we ultimately end up with?[Long pause] A cross between music and perception.Platforms editor Peter Rubin (@provenself) writes frequently about virtual reality for WIRED. His own book about VR, Future Presence, will be released in March.This article appears in the December issue. Subscribe now. Related VideoTechnologyMicrosoft’s Project HoloLensMicrosoft reveals its mind-bending HoloLens, a pair of glasses that allows viewers to see holograms layered over the real world. 

The most recent episode of Rotten Tomatoes' new movie-review series, See It/Skip It, opened not with a rave, nor a thumbs-down, but a semi-apology. "We've seen the conversations online about the Justice League Tomatometer," co-host Jacqueline Coley told her Facebook Watch audience, "and we get it: You guys are passionate about this film. But we hope everyone understands the only thing we're trying to do is add context and conversation around the Tomatometer, and not just give a number."Related StoriesAngela WatercutterJustice League Is a Beautiful Mess of a Franken-MovieAdam RogersRotten Tomatoes and the Unbearable Heaviness of DataAngela WatercutterWhat's Zack Snyder Been Doing Since He Left Justice League? Making an iPhone FilmIt was an odd, stilted start to what's supposed to be a breezy movie-chat show (the phrase "context and conversation around the Tomatometer" sounds like something a drunken Babelfish bot might spit out). Yet it was an unavoidable one, given that Rotten Tomatoes, the review-aggregator-slash-Hollywood-agitator, had irked DC fans by withholding its Justice League score until Thursday night's See It/Skip It premiere—even though a wave of reviews for the film had already been posted online. The move was ostensibly a ploy to get viewers to tune in for the show, yet others saw a greater villainy at work: Was Rotten Tomatoes, which is owned in part by Warner Bros., actually trying to shield the studio from an inevitably bad grade that could help kill its opening weekend?The See It/Skip It pushback—which involved a lot of Tweet-screaming—was a reminder of just how controversial Justice League had become. Not Last Temptation of Christ-level controversial, mind you; this is a film in which one character sounds like Rockbiter while another sounds like Rockbiter with IBS, and in which everyone says the phrase "Mother Box" very gravely. There's not much protest-worthy content in Justice League, save for Henry Cavill's new digitally enhanced, stupor-man smile. But just as Justice League (the movie) brings together a bunch of outsiders for a single cause, Justice League (the event) assembles a raft of heated debate topics—from the vision of Zack Snyder to the power of Rotten Tomatoes to the conspiracy-needling coziness of corporate media—under one garish, hastily CGI'd umbrella. And with Justice League having earned a less-than-expected $96 million in its opening weekend, the lowest ever for a DCEU title, the movie will likely be seen as a Flash-point moment for DC movies as a whole.First, though, a quick origin story: Justice League is the fourth DC movie to be released by Warner Bros. in just under two years, and a crucial one, as it reunites the company's key franchise players (Batman, Wonder Woman, and Superman) while also introducing a few big-screen up-and-comers (Aquaman, The Flash, Cyborg). Such a marvelous team-up collates various storylines while also serving as an excuse to spin off even more solo adventures, which the studio will release every year for the next few years and/or decades, until we finally get to Denis Villeneuve's four-hour Mxyzptlk: The IMAXyzptlk Experience (slated for spring 2039). With so many characters and plot points to support, Justice isn't so much a narrative exercise as it is a $300 million infrastructure project.But there's another reason for all the pre-release pressure on Justice League: With the exception of this summer's Wonder Woman, the previous DC entries have all earned disappointingly low scores on Rotten Tomatoes, which in recent years has become the scorn of studio heads and DC-boosters alike. One studio executive told the New York Times that it was his mission to "destroy" RT; Martin Scorsese declared the site had "nothing to do with real film criticism"; and Brett Ratner said this spring that RT was "the worst thing we have in the movie culture."Ratner himself would become a quickly vanquished catastrophe a few months later, but his frustration was likely due to the fact that his production company helped finance 2016's Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, which had been brutally dinged by RT's critics (its score as of today is a v v disappointing 27 percent). That summer's Suicide Squad didn't fare better (it's now at 26 percent), and even 2013's slightly well-regarded Man of Steel could only muster a mere 55 percent. All three movies were either directed and/or co-produced by Snyder, the tableau-larding, dudes-and-broods auteur whose work is ferociously debated online; depending upon what time of day it is on Twitter, his movies are regarded as either enthrallingly grown-up, or laughably melodramatic. (Snyder is also credited as director on Justice League, although he stepped away from filming after a family tragedy, and was replaced by Avengers helmer Joss Whedon.)For some fans, the low scores felt like a referendum not only on Snyder's work, but the DC Extended Universe franchise as a whole—so much so, a few defenders even began to speculate as to whether Rotten Tomatoes was manipulating the DCEU data (or, at the very least, grading the reviews on a much steeper curve than the Marvel films). Such theories filled message boards and Quora discussions, and there was even a Change.org petition to shut the site down that collected more than 23,000 signatures).DC fans very much do not want these movies to suck, and when their very suckitude becomes a semi-objective truth—something that can be "proven" with a measurement like the Tomatometer—it can become the Mother Box of all insults.Considering how some DC obsessives have reacted to the films' bad reviews—there have been death threats in the past—the conspiracy theory is actually a somewhat measured response. Yet there is no damning, X-on-the-bench-style clue-bonanza to pore over here, aside from the reviews themselves. There's also little in the way of motive: Why would RT want to intentionally and repeatedly crucify a franchise–especially one maintained by Warner Bros., which has held various financial stakes in the company? If RT did hold DC films to a harsher standard than Marvel films, why would movie critics acquiesce to having their opinions misrepresented? And how would the site's anomalous 92 percent critical score for Wonder Woman play into this supposed RT v DC secret war?The simple answer to all of these questions is that the DC Extended Universe is, even its better moments, a wobbily constructed franchise-in-flux, and that the critics have responded accordingly. Yet it's hard not to understand why so many DC fans look at these RT scores and feel as though they're under attack, as well. In the social-media era, the lines between our personal lives and the pop-cultural ones have been erased, and the heroes  we once adored and/or doodled in private have become literal public avatars. DC fans very much do not want these movies to suck, and when their very suckitude becomes a semi-objective truth—something that can be "proven" with a measurement like the Tomatometer—it can become the Mother Box of all insults. Even if the See It/Skip It ratings-ruse wasn't some Warner Bros.-dictated corporate maneuver (as an RT spokesperson told the Chicago Tribune), dangling the verdict in front of fans, and putting off the inevitable, felt like a misuse of power.Which may be why, by Monday morning, another Justice League score had begun to draw attention on Rotten Tomatoes: The movie's audience score, which collected more than 100,000 votes, and is currently standing at 85 percent. Maybe those competing numbers speak to a larger divide, and that the critics who disliked Justice League are simply unaligned with the average moviegoer (a complaint that goes back decades now, and feels as pointless as ever). Perhaps there's a minor DC-fan counter-rebellion underway, with some users amping up their score a to send RT a message (or to encourage others to see the movie for themselves). Or maybe the future of movie discussion will simply come down to a numbers game, one in which viewers stake out a position, find the stats that seem to back it up, and stick to their own league. Related VideoMovies & TVDC vs. Marvel: Box Office Battle | Data AttackData Attack reveals the history of DC and Marvel films and how they’ve created Hollywood’s biggest franchises.
Animation by Eric Power 

Stephen Shore was an Instagram artist way before there was Insta­gram. He shot to prominence in the ’70s with carefully composed snapshots of parking lots, pancake breakfasts, and camping trips, beautiful banalities that future Instagrammers would try to emulate. Now that Shore is actually on the platform, he averages a post a day—and a retrospective of his work, opening at New York’s Museum of Modern Art in November, shows off three years’ worth of his ’grams. Including (obviously) a portrait of his beloved Himalayan cat, Oscar.Stephen Shore / Art + Commerce@stephen.shoreFollowers: 97.5KPosts: 1,145Exhibition Dates: November 19 to May 28Visitors will scan Shore’s feed on iPads, preserving the social media experience of the finger-flicking scroll and the luminous screen. Oh, and don’t compare his animal photography to your own. “When I take a photo of my cat, I’m well aware that there are millions of cat pictures on Instagram,” he says. “The image has to be strong and not depend on it simply being a cat picture.” In this moment with Oscar, the light was just right to highlight the deep pools of his eyes and the ferocity of his gaze. Shore assures us his cat doesn’t look this scary IRL.This article appears in the November issue. Subscribe now.Portrait courtesy of Stephen Shore Related VideoGadgetsIs It Art? The Rise of Made-for-Instagram ExhibitsNew pop-up exhibits like the Museum of Ice Cream and Color Factory are ditching the traditional gallery barriers and "no photography" rules for interactive, picture perfect installations. 

With less than four weeks to go before the opening of Star Wars: The Last Jedi, everyone is getting very, very excited about the prospect of returning to the Resistance, the First Order, and the never-ending conflict between good and evil. But do you know just how never-ending that conflict is going to be? Perhaps you should have a seat before reading on.Rey Will Be Put to the Test in The Last JediThe Source: The woman behind ReyProbability of Accuracy: It's more teases than hard facts, so let's chalk this up as "possible, if not probable" for now.The Real Deal: What is going on with Rey in Star Wars: The Last Jedi? Daisy Ridley has been dropping hints lately while promoting Murder on the Orient Express, saying that Rey's experience with Supreme Leader Snoke is "one of those tests for Rey. And when I say testing, it's the worst use of testing ever." But what is he testing for? Perhaps to see whether Rey is a needed foil for his current protege, Kylo Ren? Of Rey's relationship with Kylo, Ridley said, "These are two people who represent two very different sides of life, good and evil… That's going to be explored more in this [movie]." Could they bring balance to the Force, perhaps?There's a Lot More Star Wars Coming SoonThe Source: Official announcements from Disney and LucasfilmProbability of Accuracy: They're official announcements; it gets no more accurate.The Real Deal: The biggest news coming from a galaxy far, far away these days is that there will be a lot more Star Wars hitting screens big and small in the coming years. Not only is Last Jedi director Rian Johnson helming an all-new trilogy, but there's also a live-action TV series coming in 2019 as part of Disney's planned streaming service, which is set to launch that year. Quite what this means for the rest of the franchise—Will there be a new animated series to replace the soon-concluding Star Wars Rebels? Will there be a new trilogy in the "Skywalker Saga" after 2019's Star Wars: Episode IX?—remains to be seen. But for now, know this: There's no end to the wars coming anytime soon. And isn't that what everyone really wanted all along?'Lifestyles of the Scum and Villainous' Definitely Has a Ring to ItThe Source: Speculation brought on by perhaps accidental spoilageProbability of Accuracy: File under: "I Have a Bad Feeling About This."The Real Deal: Intentionally or otherwise, Entertainment Weekly let a Last Jedi spoiler slip last week when it introduced an excerpt from the upcoming Canto Bight prose anthology, revealing that Finn and Rose Tico visit the casino city "on a covert mission, trying to blend in amongst the glitterati who travel here from afar to frolic and gamble away galactic wealth." Folks already know they also go undercover as First Order officers, so now we have to ask: What is the connection between the First Order and Canto Bight? Is the casino city laundering First Order funds? Is something else going on?! Michael Siglain—creative director for Lucasfilm Publishing—described the city as "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous for Star Wars," adding, "but looks can certainly be deceiving, and everything isn’t always as beautiful as it seems." So, it's almost certainly the ugly flip side of Bespin Cloud City, right?Aren't You a Little Regal to Be a Stormtrooper?The Source: One of the First Order's most wanted menProbability of Accuracy: Why would anyone have any reason to doubt this turncoat-turned-hero?The Real Deal: Apparently everyone will be signing up for the Dark Side in the next Star Wars movie. John Boyega (aka Finn) told The Hollywood Reporter that he's in a scene in the movie alongside three very special stormtroopers: Princes William and Harry, along with actor Tom Hardy. (Former Take That singer Gary Barlow plays a fourth stormtrooper in the scene, but the royals and Mad Max are the draw here.) "It was a great experience," Boyega said about the scene, but he's kind of required to say such things. It's not as if anyone could really say, "The two heirs to the British throne were not the best actors, even in armor that entirely disguises them and requires no dialogue whatsoever." There are certain things that are just expected of a British subject, after all.Disney WorldsThe Source: Lucasfilm itselfProbability of Accuracy: This is, indeed, your ideal holiday village, dear friends.The Real Deal: Looks like Disney is following through on its announced scheme to introduce new planets from the Star Wars universe as part of its upcoming theme park attractions. According to StarWars.com,
a new world called Batuu will be one of the settings of Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge when the new lands open at the Disneyland and Walt Disney World parks in 2019. Batuu is a "thriving port for smugglers, rogue traders and adventurers" that is "also a convenient safe haven for those intent on avoiding the expanding reach of the First Order." Sounds like the ideal vacation spot! Well, as long as you're not too afraid of wretched hives of scum and villainy, of course.More Star WarsThe Last Jedi's secrets are starting to leakNobody wants a Jabba movie, thanks anywayIs anyone not switching sides in The Last Jedi? Related VideoMovies & TVStar Wars Announces Episode VIII in ProductionStar Wars Announces Episode VIII 

It was late last year, around mid-September, when I finally surrendered to the fatigue. The months preceding had been besieged by nonstop work, paralyzing anxiety, and what felt like a gushing waterfall of stress. I was 30, and like a handful of friends who’d shared comparable stories, felt increasingly and exponentially overwhelmed by the dizzying pace I thought I needed to maintain in order to succeed at adulthood.Out of this manic velocity, two immediate consequences arose. I began experiencing phantom chest pains—subtle, prodding, undeviating—and periodic breathing aberrations that made it hard to inhale and exhale for a sustained period of time. After a chest x-ray at a downtown Manhattan lab revealed that there were no maladies at work, my doctor determined it was most likely the result of constant stress, which had begun to compound in my body. She suggested that I was carrying it with me, and prescribed an inhaler as one course of treatment (as a child I suffered from serious bouts of asthma). The other avenue to well-being would prove much more intricate: “You’re exhausted,” she told me. “You have to rest.”How I would go about attaining rest—which, I should say, was not solely a matter of sleep—was not immediately clear or as easily realized in the subsequent months.The earliest remedies were simple, if insubstantial: I threw myself into fabricated realities. It was a purposeful, obsessive detachment. Upon the suggestion of my cousin who’d been staying with me, I began watching mindless reality TV, and soon became fixated with MTV’s Are You The One? With matching hunger, I devoured full seasons of light-hearted comedies like Happy Endings, the ABC sitcom about a cohort of twentysomethings in Chicago. I retreated to a place that I believed demanded little of me. I told myself it was survival—blind to the fact that true self-preservation is, too, a kind of continuous, laboring work.Escape and preservation may overlap, but they’re not synonymous. The real question in front of me was larger, vaguer, and just as elusive: How could I better take care of myself in the face of a constant barrage of news that was being shoved into my life from television and Twitter and push alerts? How could I shut out the noise?It’s one thing to stay abreast of what is transpiring in the world around you; it’s a wholly different thing to feel buffeted by the tempo of the world. With each day came violent shock and new inhumanities—the shooting at Pulse nightclub; the killing of another unarmed black man by police; the growing protests over the Dakota Access Pipeline. In November, the election of Donald Trump landed with the full force of apocalyptic gloom and time seemed to thicken. A week was a year was a month was day. First was confirmation of Russian interference in the election. Then came chatter of who might comprise Trump’s cabinet. Then it was something Trump said or did or tweeted—The Muslim Ban, The Wall! His ascendancy to the White House had accelerated the modes by which we consume news. We were fat before, but with Trump in office, we had become achingly gluttonous.I realized that the crush I felt was directly correlated to my digital habits: neurotically tracking news for work, posting to Twitter and Instagram, texting friends with rhythmic frequency, responding to and sending emails around the clock. A great portion of my day was being spent in front of screens—an iPhone, a laptop, my work computer, or simply watching TV at home.  These daily practices had become the seeds of my own undoing. How then would I bridge the distance between who I had become and who I needed to be? Was more rest possible?The objective was balance. But achieving balance demanded I disengage. To that end, I made a very conscious decision: In my personal time outside of work, I would no longer deliberately read or watch the news—or any TV shows or movies that transported me to a place of despair. No more American Crime or Vice News Tonight. There were exceptions, of course. The dystopian planes of Westworld seemed far too removed from our present bind; I happily indulged. I fashioned new habits: Each morning I ingested current events via Viceland’s Desus & Mero from the night before, moved with less urgency in lieu of rushing to work, and tried to rely less on my iPhone during commutes, flinging myself into a book.The escapism I sought needed to be unchallenging, soft, and assured. It wasn’t a complete digital detox, though; I reoriented my focus. I deleted the Twitter app from my phone, a tool I'd become too dependent on. When I found myself on the platform I consciously sought out moments of joy and soon began recording Instagram Stories. The gym also became a daily ritual—a place to relieve stress, blast music, and easily unplug from the online world. That I was slowly assuming a healthier lifestyle only seemed like an added bonus.This past May, during a routine checkup with my doctor, I realized the chest pains had dissipated. I’d been getting more rest, taking more time for myself, and it seemed to be paying off. Still, I struggled with bouts of anxiety, of figuratively feeling closed in; it was no surprise that, at a given moment, I still found myself short of breath.I began to more comfortably disengage in real life, too: I turned down social events and parties, lost touch with acquaintances, and, on rare occasions, spent whole days inside my apartment on weekends where I would order food on Seamless and spend as little energy as humanly possible. I started getting pedicures and, upon advice from a friend, ravenously listened to Oprah’s Super Soul Conversations, a self-empowerment podcast that features discussions with spiritual leaders, authors, and self-help gurus. This summer, I found myself venturing to Central Park alone to sit under the sun, listening to episodes about vulnerability, being more present, and—as Dr. Brene Brown suggested in one episode—practicing more gratitude to attain joy. I had become more selfish with my time. And I felt great—but it still didn’t feel like enough.I will admit here, too: I did begin to feel more alone. A retreat from the world is also a retreat from intimacies and joys you’ve long held dear. A series of studies suggested social isolation can in fact be harmful and is sometimes the source of increased anxiety, irregular sleep patterns, and a fluctuating immune system. A thought blossomed: Was I going about this the wrong way?Some weeks ago, as I waited for a subway to arrive during the clatter of rush hour, I witnessed an older gentleman in a tan suit tell his friend, emphatically extending his right arm for effect: “Your only focus should be finding a new situation.” He pointed forward as if the destination was just ahead, and I began to think if I too might find some new source of well-being in that same direction. I took this as my charge. For the greater part of the year I had disconnected from friends and social engagements, with mostly positive results. But, in truth, I had become too comfortable with this modified way of life. It was time to seek out a new situation.In early November, one month after 58 people were killed in a Las Vegas shooting and two days after a gunman opened fire in a South Texas church, I emailed a batch of friends and asked, “What do you do to feel less anxious?” I wanted to know what they’d done to combat such galvanizing experiences. Did they have tips on how to abate the world’s strain? Had they also felt crushed under daily cruelties? I posed a straightforward question: “What practices have you taken on, if any, since Trump was elected that have better assuaged your unease?”The responses were immediate, and many were eager to share. “I get on [NYC area commuter rail line] Metro North and get off and go hiking,” one friend suggested. Another who works for a major news organization replied: “More sleep, more vulnerability about my emotional state, more reconnection with the earth’s natural patterns.” A friend who recently overcame his own series of personal demons, joked: “Oh my lord HOW MUCH TIME DO YOU HAVE?” Another confessed: “I smoke most nights before bed. I never smoked with regularity before 2016.”When feeling plagued by angst or elevated stress, one friend who lives in DC said he throws himself into deep dives on the internet, researching questions like “How to calculate the number of stars in our solar system?” or “How many queens have ruled over England?” Another friend, who takes SSRIs for his general anxiety disorder, suggested reading Thich Nhat Hanh, who he said offers an abundance of “advice on the actual practical side of focusing on breathing, being in the moment, etc,” adding: “He’s like the Mr. Rogers of Buddhism.” Meditation, prayer, and being more selective in who I portion my time to all featured heavily in the responses (the latter of which I’d been doing).“This is such eerie timing,” one friend responded later that night. She explained that she’d recently suffered from a spell of panic attacks and had taken time off from work. Among her recommendations, the one I found most fascinating, and the one that seemed to be the thread among each response I received was, I realized, the most obvious: “More communal meals with close friends and family.” Each friend, in their own way, had adjusted their life to be more present—to one’s emotional state, to the silence around them, to the people they cherish in their lives. And because our capacity for presence has atrophied in the age of multitasking—we typically allocate a morsel of our attention to a given moment, rarely the full self—the decision to be mindfully present felt revolutionary to me.In the 12 months prior, I had done my very best to unpin myself from daily commitments: social norms, friends, lingering responsibilities. In doing so, I’d cultivated a great expanse around me—but, I now see, it was far too much for one person to nurture all by himself. In doing so, I had produced a marginal supply of well-being. I realized, too, that there was no one avenue to how I should attack the disquiet of a particular day and the tensions it carried.What is both uncanny and true about this story is that days prior to sending that email and receiving a bounty of advice, I found myself at a friend’s intimate dinner party. We’d assembled to celebrate a birthday, and also each other. It had been a taxing year and we were thankful for release, momentarily away from a world that had rendered our bodies as targets and as symbols of subjective value. We took photos and posted small slices of the night to our respective Instagram accounts. We ate and danced and ate some more. We laughed giant gulps of laughter. I think of my friend’s words—how injecting yourself into the right community of people can be a corrective to private and public tumult, how it can be a balm for the body—and I think back to that night. My breathing did not waver once. Related VideoTechnologyApp Pack | Meditation Apps to Help You Stay SaneLoad up your devices with these mediation, mindfulness, and relaxation apps. Hopefully, they’ll help you find some inner peace. Namaste! 

There might be no better sign of the state of the internet this year than the fact that a potential meme about the president awkwardly drinking water was quickly eclipsed by news of groping allegations against Democratic Senator Al Franken, and then that both of those stories were eclipsed by a tweet from the president. Pretty much 2017 in a nutshell. But how is everyone else doing? Well, perhaps we shouldn't have asked…Treasury Secretary Steven McDuckWhat Happened: Just when you thought that the Trump administration was getting better with that whole "bad optics" thing…What Really Happened: You have to give it to US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. At a time when Republicans are under fire for a tax overhaul that vastly favors the rich, he managed to conjure up a photo-op that made himself and wife Louise Linton look like cartoonishly insensitive wealthy buffoons.https://twitter.com/MichaelBKelley/status/930874884347121670Sure, there's a context. It's from a tour of the DC Bureau of Engraving, and the banknotes feature Mnuchin's signature for the first time. But really, context only means so much when dealing with something like this, as Twitter was quick to explain.https://twitter.com/christinawilkie/status/930874959425089536https://twitter.com/MikeBeauvais/status/930879451876986881https://twitter.com/TVietor08/status/930880129848315904https://twitter.com/Khanoisseur/status/930888633506074629https://twitter.com/MikeDrucker/status/930887829571489792https://twitter.com/mmpadellan/status/930896211254661121https://twitter.com/morninggloria/status/930888135248109568https://twitter.com/VitruvianMonkey/status/930900129598631936https://twitter.com/louisvirtel/status/930924127153659905https://twitter.com/iamjoonlee/status/930885275395543040Well, at least no Democratic congressman is using the image in advertisements to specifically link it to the ongoing tax debate to… Oh, wait.https://twitter.com/tedlieu/status/931335792198344704The Takeaway: Who knew that laughing at ill-considered publicity photos of rich folk could be quite so therapeutic?https://twitter.com/jesseberney/status/930884085333004288Another Verifiable MessWhat Happened: Twitter starts to finally clean house, and not everyone is excited.What Really Happened: As anyone who's been following this column for any length of time already knows, Twitter has come under fire a lot recently over its verification policies. Last week, after an uproar over the organizer of the Charlottesville rally getting a "verified" check mark, things began to change, much to the surprise of those whose accounts were affected:https://twitter.com/RichardBSpencer/status/930939544941285378https://twitter.com/apurposefulwife/status/930932144997830657(Note: That Twitter account has a bio that reads, in part, "American heart, European blood. #WhiteCulture.")https://twitter.com/LauraLoomer/status/930930858311192581https://twitter.com/TRobinsonNewEra/status/930934719876870144https://twitter.com/TheMadDimension/status/930939995954860033So, what was going on? It turns out, Twitter might have been listening all along.https://twitter.com/passantino/status/930928522331222016https://twitter.com/selenalarson/status/930928837948358656Oh. Twitter explained what was happening in, appropriately, a handful of tweets.https://twitter.com/TwitterSupport/status/930926071779692544https://twitter.com/TwitterSupport/status/930926124892168192https://twitter.com/TwitterSupport/status/930926172812165120https://twitter.com/TwitterSupport/status/930926225517719552https://twitter.com/TwitterSupport/status/930926295034224641https://twitter.com/biz/status/930947099478319104The loss of check marks for racists didn't go unnoticed by the media, but unsurprisingly, not everyone is in favor of white supremacists and getting unverified—not banned, mind you, not censored, just unverified. (Bear that latter part in mind as you keep reading.)https://twitter.com/alexjg0/status/930933911487729664https://twitter.com/Kantrowitz/status/930926510403338240https://twitter.com/Communism_Kills/status/930940379490410497https://twitter.com/MikeTokes/status/930939922395021312The Takeaway: For those concerned about censorship on the platform, please consider this old parable.https://twitter.com/joncstone/status/930944474003451907Twitter Doesn't Like Sean Hannity's ChartWhat Happened: Sometimes, when you're trying to sell a complicated conspiracy theory, it's good to make a mood board to help explain everything. But then, of course, the internet gets to make fun of it.What Really Happened: Fox News' Sean Hannity didn't have the best week last week. First, his much-hyped ultimatum to Alabama senatorial candidate Roy Moore to explain his sexual abuse allegations or drop out of the race got nixed just one day later. Then there was this:https://twitter.com/ditzkoff/status/930620414145032193No, you're not seeing things. That is, indeed, a complicated flowchart "proving" Hillary Clinton's complicity in the Uranium One deal, an oft-debunked non-scandal that might, nonetheless, lead to a special counsel investigation. The chart is very complex. But Twitter, however, was not impressed by Hannity's homework.https://twitter.com/JuddLegum/status/930628155701891073https://twitter.com/gilbertjasono/status/930634003505434624https://twitter.com/drewtoothpaste/status/930628473688920065https://twitter.com/MiahSaint/status/930651277737861120https://twitter.com/scoejarborough/status/930621384459538439https://twitter.com/pourmecoffee/status/930634236603846656https://twitter.com/brianefallon/status/930624377200304133https://twitter.com/davelozo/status/930675214500941824https://twitter.com/TheMrJayBrown/status/930652751650086912https://twitter.com/KevinMKruse/status/930790176342925312It wasn't just social media that couldn't quite believe what was going on, however; mainstream media got in on the act, too. And, really, who could blame them?The Takeaway: Meanwhile, while Sean Hannity tries really hard to convince Fox News viewers that there is a conspiracy to be uncovered, Shep Smith on the same network is undoing all that hard work by … reporting the facts:https://twitter.com/mmfa/status/930551622849118208Sorry, Sean.Define 'Sexiest'...What Happened: Who's the Sexiest Man Alive? The answer might shock you! No, really; you might genuinely be surprised.What Really Happened: It's that time again! You know, the point where every single man in the entire world gets rounded up and placed into a Thunderdome-like conflict to decide just which one is the sexiest man alive! Previous winners have included Dwayne Johnson (2016), Chris Hemsworth (2014), and Channing Tatum (2012), but who's the lucky winner this year? People magazine, don't keep us in suspense any longer…!https://twitter.com/people/status/930601811471486976…Oh. Well, yeah, I guess that's a choice? But, it turned out, not one that was particularly popular online.https://twitter.com/elielcruz/status/930606876554878977https://twitter.com/khia213/status/930606416544530432https://twitter.com/ItsTheBrandi/status/930659498762653696https://twitter.com/DanaSchwartzzz/status/930817958485659648https://twitter.com/louisvirtel/status/930688186153623552https://twitter.com/aparnapkin/status/930836212889288704https://twitter.com/kalebhorton/status/930880097560625152https://twitter.com/alshipley/status/930897461706620934https://twitter.com/JohnWolfeYT/status/930889668954066945https://twitter.com/Coelasquid/status/930916293896683520While the media took note of the upset—with a couple of outlets providing new reasons to be mad—Shelton took it in stride.https://twitter.com/blakeshelton/status/931276018832281600The Takeaway: The winner of this whole shebang? Let's just give it to Stranger Things' David Harbour. He knows why.https://twitter.com/davidkharbour/status/930698698513944576Mate 4 MateWhat Happened: Australia declared that it's ready for same-sex marriage.What Really Happened: Let's end this week with some news that made a lot of people very happy.https://twitter.com/tminear/status/930572077064523776https://twitter.com/alexwain/status/930549161593774080https://twitter.com/AMEquality/status/930616347670622208https://twitter.com/SquigglyRick/status/930568560077709312https://twitter.com/BernardKeane/status/930573056807903232https://twitter.com/JamesAALongman/status/930740598998478848https://twitter.com/AhronYoung/status/930682053707825152Before we all get too carried away…https://twitter.com/catspaperbacks/status/930930120075784192Yes, the vote was actually only a postal survey, albeit one where the dramatic results pushed politicians into action.https://twitter.com/TurnbullMalcolm/status/930575993294635008https://twitter.com/ByClare/status/930580302073696256https://twitter.com/workmanalice/status/930961022990430208In the year of tumult that is 2017, it's good to know that sometimes things aren't always terrible.The Takeaway: Trust Nate Silver to put everything into perspective and say what folks were all already thinking. Namely, hadn't Australia already done that?https://twitter.com/NateSilver538/status/930579485510037504 

